Update rfp-to-videographers.md (#43)
humanetech-community/humanetech-community-awareness: strategy/rfp-to-videographers.md

[Name]
[Studio Name]
[Address]

Dear [Name]:

**Re: Request for proposal to produce a short video commissioned by the Humane Tech Community**

> The Humane Tech Community ("HTC"), founded by The Center for Humane Technology (www.humanetech.com), is a grassroots movement whose purpose is to "Re-align Technology with Humanity's Best Interests". Based upon four pillars---namely, Awareness, Regulation, Participation, and Realization---the community is actively involved in numerous initiatives aimed at changing the status quo and strengthening society.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Humane Tech Community ("HTC"), founded by The Center for Humane Technology (www.humanetech.com), is a grassroots movement whose purpose is to "Re-align Technology with Humanity's Best Interests". Based upon four pillars - namely, Awareness, Regulation, Participation, and Realization - the community is actively involved in numerous initiatives aimed at changing the status quo and strengthening society.
```

Probably your text editor long dashes are translated into 3 individual dashes in Markdown. Let's have them single dashes and spaces in the markdown template.

> One of these initiatives consists of structuring, organizing, and implementing several campaigns to raise public awareness of the potential pitfalls of rapid, drastic technology adoption and its significant impact on our society.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of these initiatives consists of structuring, organizing, and executing several campaigns to raise public awareness of the potential pitfalls of rapid, drastic technology adoption and its significant impact on our society.
```

Think 'executing' is better campaign terminology to use.

> The first campaign, named "Reality Shock," involves the production and distribution of a series of short, dramatic videos (each a few minutes long) aimed at shocking the audience into introspection and reflection on the hazards presented by technology (e.g., smartphone and social media addictions, privacy invasion, social-credit systems, etc.) and how people may be affected to their detriment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first campaign, named "Reality Shock," involves the production and distribution of a series of short, dramatic videos (each a few minutes long) aimed at shocking the audience into introspection and reflection on the hazards presented by technology (e.g., smartphone and social media addictions, privacy invasion, social credit systems, etc.) and how people may be negatively affected. 
```

Note that there should not be an hyphen in "social credit".
Love this brand new "suggested change" feature!

> We believe that to achieve maximum distribution and impact, these videos should be produced by a professional studio. We would like to invite your company to submit a detailed proposal for the production of one of these videos, _A Coffee Place_ (working title).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe that to achieve maximum distribution and impact, these videos should be produced by a professional studio. We would like to invite your company to submit a detailed proposal for the production of one of these videos, _"Caffeine Injection"_ (working title).
```

Title had changed since creating RFP document.

> HTC members will assess your proposal on the basis of your preliminary ideas, experience with similar projects, schedule, and budget. As you will understand, the HTC as a community of volunteers will pay special attention to the budget you propose. We hope that the final deliverable can be made without sacrificing the high quality needed to reach a large audience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTC members will assess your proposal on the basis of your preliminary ideas, experience with similar projects, schedule, and budget. As you will understand, the HTC as a community of volunteers will pay special attention to the budget you propose. We hope that the final deliverable can be made at a reasonable cost without sacrificing the high quality needed to reach a large audience. 
```

Propose to add "at a reasonable cost" to the third sentence, otherwise the sentence is kind of weird.

> If your company sympathizes with our cause, or believes, as we do, that this project has a high potential to be widely distributed and reach millions, we also invite you to consider working with us on a partnership basis, where you will essentially produce the video for free, in exchange for special credits and other advantages to be discussed. 

Reviewer: > We should avoid having references to a specific video throughout the document, as the template RFP will be used for various video projects, and to produce a new RFP for a new video project, the process should only involve copy paste the script and music title in the attachments (not having to edit in multiple locations).

It is okay, if we first produce the example RFP, then derive a template from that. I did the same with the other issue templates for proposals, and even left some of the sample text in the template, accompanied with comments explaining how to edit.

> I think we should not say "where you will essentially produce the video for free". 

Yep. Good point.

You will find attached the following information to help you prepare your proposal:

1. Campaign theme, description, and objectives
2. Video concept, script, and objectives
3. Scope of work
4. Key issues
5. Elements of your proposal

Should you have any questions about this project, please contact one of the following HTC representatives:

- Contact 1
- Contact 2
- Contact 3

> We hope you will find this project as exciting as we do. It would be best if we could hear from you by November 30, 2019, but if more time is needed, please let us know.

Reviewer 2: Suggest having "We hope you will find this project as exciting as we do and look forward to receiving your proposal on or before 30 November 2018." (was "2019" intentional?)

Author: Yikes, thanks for catching the error.

Best regards,
[Name]
Humane Technology Community

> 

Reviewer: Good that you have left out the Theme document. This will indeed be too much, and RFP receiver does not know the structure of `Theme` > `Campaign`. I see you created a smaller summary.

Only thing to be aware of - when creating an easy-to-use RFP template from this - is that RFP creation should not have too many changes to the original proposal. Ideally this inclusion is a simple copy / paste action.

### Attachment 1

#### Campaign Theme: _Mankind 2.0_

Objective: Raising awareness of the impact of technology on our society by producing videos of unsettling or jarring experiences resulting from the conflict between promised, postive results and actual, negative results. Subjects to be covered in this campaign include smartphone and social media addiction, privacy invasion, and social-credit systems.

Approach

- Shock the audience without imposing an agenda or lecturing the target audience
- Lead to introspection and questioning by asking people if they are comfortable with the impact of these forms of technology on their lives
- Make the audience think and reach their own conclusions
- Provoke to reflect and reconsider

#### "Reality Shock" Campaign 

Series of short, dramatic videos that illustrate the pervasive use of technology and rapid, drastic changes in our society and provoke people to ask, "Is this really acceptable in a healthy, fair, and strong society?"

Approach

> Argumentation, reasoning, and "lectures" only go so far to change people's mind and behaviors; hence we propose to trigger an "emotional" response that leads to reflection. The campaign will feature short videos (2-3 minutes each) that aim to be dramatic and impactful through the combined use of words, cinematography, and music. It does not aim to pursue a specific agenda, impose on the audience a particular message, or impose a "lecture." Rather, it aims to provoke introspection by telling provocative stories, the conclusions of which are left to the audience. Why is it important to adopt a "neutral" approach based on providing factual observations in a spectacular and dramatic form? Our belief is that people will not change their behaviors on the mere basis of facts and reason if they have no motivation to challenge their thinking in the first place. The dramatic videos aim to shock and leave a strong impression that ideally will lead to reconsideration of our unconscious and pervasive use of technology.

Reviewer 2: Suggest breaking this very heavy paragraph into several, otherwise will not be read. Does not have to be bullet points.

> #### A Coffee Place

Reviewer 2: New working title is "Caffeine Injection"

Reviewer: Yes, best make that change. Then afterwards do not put effort in continuously staying in sync with changes to the deliverable. First create example RFP and template RFP.

Short video depicting the rapid and drastic growth in smartphone addiction.

Objectives

- Shock the audience into realizing that our world has changed so much and so quickly since the smartphone's advent.
- Contrast previous times and social habits with the now universal addiction to our devices.
- Get the audience to ponder whether we should be more than a bit concerned about such drastic changes to the way we interact.

Concept

> A look at how our pastimes have changed by considering a scene at a cafe that changes (in time lapse) over a period of two decades. From leisurely and seemingly tranquil activities, we have become increasingly absorbed in our phones---and in the process, are helping to build the wealthiest and most powerful companies in the world’s history. At the end of the scene, viewers will, we hope, realize that smartphones have become their major source of gratification.

Reviewer: Is this something?

... '_by considering a screenplay at a cafe that plays out over the course of_' two decades '_in a number of scenes with time-lapse sequences in between_' ...

> A look at how our pastimes have changed by considering a scene at a cafe that changes (in time lapse) over a period of two decades. From leisurely and seemingly tranquil activities, we have become increasingly absorbed in our phones---and in the process, are helping to build the wealthiest and most powerful companies in the world’s history. At the end of the scene, viewers will, we hope, realize that smartphones have become their major source of gratification.

Reviewer 2: Nah, sorry, I think best to keep the original wording, i.e. "a scene that actually represents two decades".

> Script

Reviewer: Yeah, that is a bit of a problem with developing things in parallel. I suggest that for creating the example RFP (and subsequent RFP template) we do not try to be in sync. Just to have good sample text, that reflects the template structure.

Then when these are ready, we can copy the RFP doc to the Campaign folder, where it is updated to reflect the actual deliverable we want to produce (by those working on that).

> Script

Reviewer 2: Ok, this makes sense. Let us just make sure that everyone updates documents with the final scripts when approaching videographers.

When the music softens in the last few seconds, one person who was engrossed in his/her phone looks up from his/her screen, and realizes there is not a soul around.

On the final notes of the music, we conclude with a question on the screen.

#### Scope of work

###Pre-production 
1. Propose storyboard.
2. Suggest shooting locations.
3. Engage figurants and actors representing age groups 20 to 60.
4. To enhance video impact, propose cinematic effects in sync with music theme.
5. Suggest additions or revisions to the script.

###Production

###Post-production
1. Work with HTC on the producing the final product.

#### Key issues

- We want to create a slow and steady progression (accentuated by the music reaching crescendo). Hence it will be important to enhance the appeal of the video by incorporating cinematic effects.
- We want the video to have as neutral a tone as possible, while leading the audience to realize something is wrong about the rapid changes caused by technology. 

#### Elements of your proposal

> - Introduction, confirming your understanding of our theme, concept, and the objectives of our campaign and _A Coffee Place._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduction, confirming your understanding of our theme, concept, and the objectives of our campaign and proposed video. 
```

Propose to not refer to the specific working title but a more generic "this video", so that this RFP can be used for other video projects without requiring changing such references throughout the document.. This section "Elements of your proposal" should be the same for every video.

- Your preliminary views on key issues (see above), comments on the script, and ideas about cinematic effects.
- Possible shooting locations
- Your preliminary views on the availability of actors/figurants.
- Your shooting schedule

> - Your rough budget

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Your rough budget (please avoid quoting a range)
```

Important to require videographer to not give a range, which is pretty useless, but something many companies do.
